23.0.0.6 staging (#3172)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2023-06-27-23.0.0.6.adoc

|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2023-28867[CVE-2023-28867]
|7.5
|Denial of service
|17.0.0.3 - 23.0.0.5
|Affects the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpGraphQL-1.0.html[mpGraphQL-1.0] and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpGraphQL-2.0.html[mpGraphQL-2.0] features
|===

For a list of past security vulnerability fixes, reference the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/security-vulnerabilities.html[Security vulnerability (CVE) list].

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23006+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 23.0.0.6].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25283[JSF Container's Application.getWrapped returns null]
+
The JSF Container features return `null` when `javax.faces.application.Application.getWrapped` method is called. 
+
This issue has been resolved and the correct wrapped object is returned.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

blog_description: Open Liberty 23.0.0.6 formally introduces the InstantOn capability, enabling your applications can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.  We are also excited to announce the release of the Liberty Tools v23.0.6 which makes Liberty development even faster by providing various development comforts like hover-over, quick fix, and diagnostic support.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= InstantOn  in Open Liberty 23.0.0.6
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> Open Liberty 23.0.0.6 adds the exciting Liberty InstantOn capability!  With InstantOn, your applications can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.  We are also excited to announce the release of the Liberty Tools v23.0.6 which makes Liberty development even faster by providing various development comforts like hover-over, quick fix, and diagnostic support.  This release also provides many significant bug fixes, including one that addresses a CVE in the MicroProfile GraphQL features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open Liberty 23.0.0.6 adds the exciting Liberty InstantOn capability! With InstantOn, your applications can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.  We are also excited to announce the release of the Liberty Tools v23.0.6, which makes Liberty development even faster by providing various development comforts like hover-over, quick fix, and diagnostic support.  This release also provides many significant bug fixes, including one that addresses a CVE in the MicroProfile GraphQL features.
```

[#run]

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.6

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>23.0.0.6</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.6,)'
}
----

Or if you're using link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/container-images.html[container images]:

[source]
----
FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/start/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25499
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,tjwatson
// // // // // // // // 
[#InstantOn]
== Rapid startup with Liberty InstantOn
   

> Performance is one of the core focuses and differentiators of the Liberty runtime, and link:{url-prefix}/blog/2019/10/30/faster-startup-open-liberty.html[as far back as 2019], Liberty was able to startup in ~1sec. Since then, Liberty has continued to pursue even faster startup, and this focus on performance has resulted in the InstantOn capability.  Liberty InstantOn enables your applications to start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Performance is one of the core focuses and differentiators of the Liberty runtime. link:{url-prefix}/blog/2019/10/30/faster-startup-open-liberty.html[As far back as 2019], Liberty was able to start up in ~1sec. Since then, Liberty has continued to pursue even faster startup, and this focus on performance has resulted in the InstantOn capability.  Liberty InstantOn enables your applications to start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.
```

> To reduce the cost of running applications in the cloud it is ideal to run the application only when it is needed. Unneeded application instances should be stopped.  As soon as activity increases again, a new application instance needs to start up quickly and respond to incoming requests efficiently. This is known as scale-to-zero.  Applications that take multiple seconds to start cannot scale-to-zero without introducing high latency for the application user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reduce the cost of running applications in the cloud, it is ideal to run the application only when it is needed. Unneeded application instances should be stopped.  As soon as activity increases again, a new application instance needs to start up quickly and respond to incoming requests efficiently. This is known as scale-to-zero.  Applications that take multiple seconds to start cannot scale-to-zero without introducing high latency for the application user.
```

> InstantOn uses the Checkpoint/Restore In Userspace (link:https://criu.org/[CRIU]) feature of the Linux kernel to take a checkpoint of the JVM that can be restored later. With InstantOn, the application is developed as normal, and then InstantOn makes a checkpoint of the application process when the application container image is built. When the application is restored, it runs in the same JVM, which provides complete parity between development and production. Because the checkpoint process takes only seconds, your CI/CD process is barely affected.  The restoration of the image takes only milliseconds, allowing your applications to quickly scale up and down provide cost benefits without any negative impacts on the end users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
InstantOn uses the Checkpoint/Restore In Userspace (link:https://criu.org/[CRIU]) feature of the Linux kernel to take a checkpoint of the JVM that can be restored later. With InstantOn, the application is developed as normal, and then InstantOn makes a checkpoint of the application process when the application container image is built. When the application is restored, it runs in the same JVM, which provides complete parity between development and production. Because the checkpoint process takes only seconds, your CI/CD process is barely affected.  The restoration of the image takes only milliseconds, allowing your applications to quickly scale up and down, which provides cost benefits without any negative impacts on the end users.
```

For more information, reference the link:{url-prefix}/blog/2023/06/29/rapid-startup-instanton.html[How to package your cloud-native Java application for rapid startup] blog post and the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/container-images.html[Faster startup with InstantOn] documentation.
   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

[#devTools]
== Liberty Tools

> The Liberty Tools v23.0.6 are now available! Some highlights include diagnostic and hover support for MicroProfile and Jakarta EE Web Profile 9.x APIs as well as various Liberty config files.  The Liberty Tools are available for Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA, and Eclipse IDE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Liberty Tools v23.0.6 are now available! Some highlights include diagnostic and hover support for MicroProfile and Jakarta EE Web Profile 9.x APIs, as well as various Liberty config files.  The Liberty Tools are available for Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA, and Eclipse IDE.
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25283[JSF Container's Application.getWrapped returns null]
+
The JSF Container features return `null` when `javax.faces.application.Application.getWrapped` method is called. 
+
This issue has been resolved and the correct wrapped object is returned.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25210[DnsContextFactory not accessible in java 17]
+
With Java 17 and Liberty trying to make a dns lookup fails. A ffdc is created with this message:
+
```
Exception = java.lang.IllegalAccessException
Source = com.ibm.ws.jndi.internal.WASURLObjectFactoryFinder
probeid = 81
Stack Dump = java.lang.IllegalAccessException: class com.ibm.ws.jndi.internal.WASURLObjectFactoryFinder cannot access class com.sun.jndi.url.dns.dnsURLContextFactory (in module jdk.naming.dns) because module jdk.naming.dns does not export com.sun.jndi.url.dns to unnamed module @188cf1f7

> ```

Reviewer 2: is anything missing here? It seems like there should be some kind of resolution claim

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25210[DnsContextFactory not accessible in java 17]
> +
> With Java 17 and Liberty trying to make a dns lookup fails. A ffdc is created with this message:
> +
> ```
> Exception = java.lang.IllegalAccessException
> Source = com.ibm.ws.jndi.internal.WASURLObjectFactoryFinder
> probeid = 81
> Stack Dump = java.lang.IllegalAccessException: class com.ibm.ws.jndi.internal.WASURLObjectFactoryFinder cannot access class com.sun.jndi.url.dns.dnsURLContextFactory (in module jdk.naming.dns) because module jdk.naming.dns does not export com.sun.jndi.url.dns to unnamed module @188cf1f7
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/25168[transport close timing issue when streams are closing and a close/goaway frame comes in]
+

> Since Http/2 and webSocket are full duplex connections, there can be multiple threads working at the same time on the same connection.  A timing window existed where one thread is closing down the connection, gets interrupted, and another thread closes the connection.  Then the first thread wakes back up to resources that have already been freed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Http/2 and webSocket are full duplex connections, multiple threads might be working at the same time on the same connection.  A timing window existed where one thread is closing down the connection, gets interrupted, and another thread closes the connection.  Then the first thread wakes back up to resources that have already been freed.
```
